topology:

physical component of computer , which is connected to each other via communication medium is called topology.


**Bus topology:**

one long cable act as single communication channle and all devices are connnected to this cable.

Advantages:

easy to add/remove nodes in network.
required only cable.

I it is less expensive.
it boradcast meesages to each device whihc are connected through cable.
it easy to maintain.
in case of computer failure , there will be no effect on ther devces.

Disadvantages:

if cable fail hen entire netwrok failed.
messages boradcast so , we cant send private messages.
it takes more time to pass messages from one place to another.
length of cable is limited.
data is transmitted in one direction.


**Ring:**
bz it form rings. each node is strongly connected with its adjacent node.


Advantages:

form strong network.
each an every node can share data with another node connected through ring topology.
transmission rate of data is very speed.
the data send through ring topology willbe broadcast.


Disaadvtg:

very diff task to add some new device.
if we want to send data from source to destination machine then data will unnnecessary passed to all nodes.
single point of failure,that means if node goes down entire network goes down.
it is very difficult to recover ring tipology 
we cant send private messages.


**Star**

all nodes are connected with central device called HUB.
sharing of daa is only possible through HUB.

Advantages:

boradcast messages.
less expensive due to less cable.
easy to connect new nodes without affecting ther.
if one nodefailed then it would not be failure of entire network.

Disadvantages:

we must required netwrok device like HUB, switch 
if two node what to share data is only posible through hub.
if hub is failed the entire network willbe failed.
we cant send private data.


**Mesh**

eacha nd evry computer is directly connected with each other,so we can directly send data to destination machine without going to intermediate machine.

Advatageds:

good topology for prvtae sending.
All nodes directy connected to another nodes
unlike ring topology  
multiple device can send r recive data simultaneously.

disadvtges:

very dfii to add some new node bz each an every computer directly connected with another one .
we cant send or recive dtaa from failure machine.


**Hybrid:**

combination of different topology 

**Tree:**

all nodes are connected like branches of tree.
combination of bus and start topolgy.

