**Protocol:**
"is set of rules"
which are used in digital communication to connect netwrok devices and exchages information between them


types of protocol:

TCP/IP(transmission control protocol):

where as IP stands for internet protocol.

TCP used to transfer data over the internet,it didvides data into small packets ans send it to destination throguh network.
while IP is used for addressing through whihc data reahces the destination.

HTTP:(Hypertext transfer protocol)(80)

is an application that is used in address bar of web browser before WWWW.
Whnever we search anything in address bar of browser so it brings that website in front of us.

SMTP(simple mail transfer protocol):(25)

it is used to send and recive emails in netwrok.

there are two more protocols uses with SMPT (POP and IMAP) all these protocols work with help of TCP/IP.


POP(post offer transfer):

it ismail box whihc actually message access protocol through whihc user can fetch the email from server.

pop protocl works up on tcp/ip protocol and help SMTP protocol from end to end communication.


IMAP(internet mail access protocol):(143)

also mail box whihc actually an imporvment version of POP.
By using IMAP main advantgae is we can retrieve our deleted email from server.


UDP(user datagram ):
it is unrealiablew and connectionless protocols so in order to send data from one machine to another machine we didnot establish any connection in compare to tcp/ip protocol.
it is usedto transfer data in short distance.


PPP(point to point protocol):(110)

it is used to transfer data betweentwo directly connected devices.


FTP(File transfer protocols):(21)

used to transfer file from server to client machine and vice versa.
It uses tcp/ip protocol to enable data transfer.


HTTPS(443)
